Set up in the early days,
set up Dear Watson processes,
so one of the simplest ones would be what
I'd call a process context diagram,
Mhm.
which is you've got a group of processes
that you represent as use cases,
and you have...
Mhm.
The actors in the use case diagram are
the participants in the process,
and you can sort of show which
participants participate in which
processes in the process group. So,
and you have multiple of those to
Mm.
describe the process groups,
so that they give you an overview of
who's involved in the different processes.
Teams, what systems, and so on,
and they're a relatively simple diagram,
actually,
much simpler than a BPMN diagram,
Mm.
because all the connectors are just
straight connectors.
The only complication is that use cases
are represented by ellipses.
And even in Enterprise Architect,
it connects to the rectangle that
inscribe, you know, the ellipse,
like it doesn't connect to the edge of
Mm.
the ellipse, right? You know, like,
because that's a little bit hard.
No, that's annoying. Oh, well, yeah.
But whereas in Magic Draw UML,
it connects to the edge.
you know,
like to the proper edge and you can move
Mm.
it around the edge.
That's a little bit complicated,
but I presume I could just get Claude
code to say, oh,
I don't want it to connect to the
rectangle,
I want it to connect to the edge.
You know,
No, absolutely.
like it may well be able to generate the
code.
So all these complications may well be.
The other thing,
when I was asking Claude about this a few
weeks ago, like,
how would I approach this,
and I want to do it from scratch, it said,
well, what are all the, I said, well,
Mm.
what are all the difficulties?
One of them is routing of connectors,
you know, to avoid things,
you've got to have them so they avoid
Mm.
That's right, yeah, yeah.
things. That's complicated.
But see,
all of this I sort of know more or less
how to do manually,
but so I'm more than happy to delve into
the complications of that so that you
move a symbol around in the diagram and
all the connectors move around it kind of
thing.
And then you've got some that actually
have to
MMM.
have to not have to actually,
like this is one of the problems with
Visio. Some things when you move them,
you want the connectors to just go
straight through them as if they're
invisible.
Like messages should never try and route
themselves around things.
Whereas you can't do that in Visio's
implementation of BPMN.
They have to go straight through.
The whole reason they're
Ah, interesting.
dotted or dashed lines is they should go,
they should be in a lighter,
They go, they go straight through.
they go straight through.
Whereas connectors that are to do with
the sequencing, they must, they must go,
they can never go through. So, you know,
there's rules about the different
connectors.
Mm.
And I know all these things and I've sort
of got this idea that I'm going to have
quite a...
Anyway,
so there's the first type of diagram.
The second type is,
this is the one I talked to the head
developer of Savaglio that came out from
Germany when we're negotiating with them
Mm.
to do Australian Unity's implementation.
And I said, well,
the diagram type you don't have is a
state machine diagram because everything
goes through these different states.
And you need to be able to do a state
machine diagram and attach it to the
end-to-end process. So, you know,
you think of virtually everything,
like in that case we were doing employees,
they go from, you know,
they're a possible employee to their
engagement, not confirmed,
and then they're confirmed,
and then they're, you know,
vetted or whatever, you know,
like they go through the state machine
Mm.
actually.
And it would be really handy to be able
to show the concept,
understand the state machine before you
do the process, if you want,
and link it to all these. Anyway,
so that's the second type of diagram,
the process context diagram. The rest are,
and then a state machine, then,
if you like, BPMN diagrams.
But it's got to be configurable so that
you can add and subtract all the symbols
Mm.
you want. So normally if I'm doing,
it's about 27 symbols,
about 110 possible symbols in BPMN that I
use for business process mapping,
and that needs to be configurable and
blah, blah, blah.
Yep.
The other thing is,
the other idea I've talked to you about
is, most things just,
the complication with BPMN diagrams that
are used in business is they are,
if you look at the standard,
they're what's called a hybrid diagram
because they have both the process,
which is the boxes and arrows and that
within lines.
Mm.
But also they have messages going to
these other,
Mm.
that's called a communication diagram.
So there's four types of diagram in the
BPMN specification. Process diagrams,
communication diagrams,
I forget the other two, but
two others which I don't use, right?
So when you're doing a BPMN diagram,
Okay.
it's actually a hybrid,
but you've got to set it up so that they
are all... Anyway,
I'm just doing a bit of background in my
thinking, okay?
And the thing that I'd like to implement
Mm.
eventually is layers.
So you can show a diagram.
And it's just the process.
Then you show the next layer and it's all
Mm.
the things it's communicating with.
That's the communication part of the
diagram, if you like, all the messages.
And then there's all the inputs and
Yeah.
outputs, you know,
they spring to life and you show,
there's a task with its, you know,
various inputs and various outputs.
Yep.
St.
So you can highlight those.
And...
And then the other thing is that most
diagrammatic tools have the idea of when
you click on a, let's say, a task,
it has an associated set of attributes,
like how long does it take,
and all the metadata associated with the
Mm.
symbol. The only other thing
Mm.
To just that I've thought about is
everything you see is in a hierarchy,
so you might see a symbol and it has.
It could have three icons inside the
symbol, like whether it's a manual task,
whether it's a subtask,
whether it's ad hoc.
These are the symbols that can be within
the rounded square rectangle, if you like,
Mhm.
so they're within, and the text is within,
if you like, and the...
Mm.
And then you've got where that sits,
that could sit in a lane,
and that lane could be part of a pool,
and then that pool could be part of a
Mhm.
diagram.
So you've got diagram and then the high
level elements, and then,
but some of these are optional.
Mm.
So for instance,
you can have a diagram that just has...
Yeah.
symbols with arrows and blah, blah, blah.
There are no lanes, no pools, no,
Mm.
but you could also have them so they're
in a hierarchy. Now also,
Mm.
there's what's called an expanded
subprocess, which is like a giant squound,
you know, rectangles, rounded corners,
but there's things inside it,
Mhm.
Squound, that's a great. So, yeah,
it's a visual term, a visual term.
the old squound.
Yeah,
that's that's the that's the official,
yeah,
that's the thing I I well I that I used
Yeah.
to call them right anyway,
so it's a rounded rectangle anyway,
Yeah.
Mm.
so you can have expand and so then it has
things inside it,
which is like a sub-process shown.
And in BPMN,
you've got this little square with a plus,
and you can have,
when it's actually expanded,
a little square with a minus,
and you click the minus and it ching,
it shrinks back to the subprocess.
And when you click the plus, it expands,
Mm.
it comes up over the top. Now,
nobody implements that properly.
right?
What they do is they push all the symbols
Mm.
aside,
but what you should do is actually just
put it,
everything should go into another layer
and the expanded process should come up
like it's another diagram,
which it is actually.
It is actually another diagram.
No, okay. So it's like a light box,
if I use the web term,
a light box being a popover, yeah.
Yeah, that's right.
The pop over and you get the layer effect.
And that's,
so that's another way that layering
should really be implemented. Now,
that extension of being able to click on
the plus and click on the square with a
minus in it is actually not described in
the BPMN standard.
And there's a bit of discussion,
there was a bit of discussion at times
whether they should do that.
Mm.
or whether they shouldn't.
They sort of had the idea, you know,
had a little box with a plus in it.
You sort of think, well,
why not click on that so you can have a
look at the, you know,
Mm.
what the process is?
And they decided not necessarily, see,
that's part of how the diagram works,
which isn't what the standard's about,
it's just about the symbols.
you know.
So A diagrammatic tool can do that.
Mm.
And there is one online tool that sort of
attempts to do it,
but what it does is it pushes everything
out of the way and then brings them all
Mm.
back in, you know, which is a bit silly,
quite frankly, but, you know,
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, that's not good.
it's sort of a good attempt at doing that.
I used to use,
I used to show people that when I was
training them in BPM and to show them
different implementations,
so they could sort of see, well,
we might be using Enterprise Architect,
but there are other things that do it a
slightly different way,
so they could sort of see, you know,
other ways of doing things,
but so that would be my venture aim to
have this diagrammatic tool, and I think..
Mm.
.
Obviously, let's say we get to that,
we call that,
that's probably stage 4 or something,
anyway, but we get to that,
then you've got the whole idea of you
subscribe and you've got users and you've
Mm.
got an enterprise,
like you as an enterprise,
Mm.
you've got all that layer,
which I think once you've got the base
That's right.
going, you then say to Claude, now I want.
..
Yeah,
you could add all that functionality.
That won't be a problem, I don't think.
Yeah, so, okay,
so that's kind of what I'd love to do.
And initially,
when you get it to that state,
you can sort of say to business analysts,
hey, use this product,
this is the best product for you to map
your processes,
and then just export them and put them in,
you know,
or have them available dynamically.
whatever you need, yeah.
So super efficient.
Yeah, whatever you need.
It'll help you do these things much
quicker. You know,
another thing in Visio that takes a
shitload of time is if you move,
if you move a symbol and it's got
messages, they all go diagonally.
You're like,
they're supposed to be like curtain rail.
The messages are supposed to be like on
curtain rails
on the edge of the black box pool,
so they just move along.
When you move the symbol,
they all move along like they're on
Mm.
curtain rails up the top and down the
bottom.
Mm.
That saves you a shitload of time if it
does that. And Magic Draw UML does that,
Mm.
but it's 3000 a seat, right? But...
Vizio doesn't, and so you know,
and like you move anything in Vizio,
Mm.
then the things reroute themselves around
the pool, and then they're all a diagonal,
and you have to manually realign them all.
It's just absolutely horrible,
Yeah, and it's horrible, yeah.
and so that takes more time than doing
the like the maintenance of the diagram.
Then, if you were building the diagram,
yeah.
Yeah, so if you can get,
my idea is to make it as easy to use.
I know this is a,
whether I ever get with or Robert to get
there, I don't know,
but you make it as easy to use so you can,
you know, move things out of the way,
put stuff in the middle,
everything just moves properly and you
can do it really quickly.
You know, if you try and do that in Visio.
Yeah, yeah. So, Lucidchart,
Lucidchart have an interesting
implementation of that.
I don't know if you've played much with
No, no I haven't actually.
Lucidchart with the with the diagrammatic.
So,
the way that they do it is they have they
have an underlying grid of,
and they they kind of display it as a
series of like greyed out.
layout symbols,
and they're laid out in a grid,
so they're standard areas apart. Now,
if you click and drag a symbol,
Alright, are you?
it actually snaps to that location,
and then everything reroutes associated
Are you?
to that. So, I'll show you it later.
It's an interesting way to kind of think
Okay, that's interesting, yeah, yeah,
yeah.
about
The things that do it, so, OK, so just...
Yeah,
that would be more than possible because
you do want some,
like the layout that you don't just want
Mm.
them anywhere, which a lot of the tools,
so for instance in Enterprise Architect,
you take,
you surround a set of symbols and you say,
align these horizontally.
And all the centres of them align and all
the connectors line up, you know,
Yeah.
so it has a way of regularising it after
you put them wherever you like, you know,
Yeah, OK.
but yeah, anyway, so all these things are,
if I had a code base that I could
gradually interact by Claude code with.
and I have all the presentation layers
sorted and blah, blah, blah.
Then now I have done the very simplest of
things and have an HTML site that does
have a BPMN diagram.
It allows you to put a BPMN diagram on it,
but it's pretty,
I realised when I did that,
it's using what's called.
bmckennamicrosoftcom,
the JavaScript library. And yeah,
Oh, okay, the JavaScript. Yeah, yeah,
it's probably not good enough.
and it's just not, it's not good enough.
And I need minute control because I want
Mm.
to be able to have a different font for
the head.
I want a size of font for things is very
important in the layout,
Mm.
like the size of font for comments.
And also for the things attached to
gateways, you know, like, for instance,
in Visio, if you've got a big sentence,
you know,
do you want to describe what the gateway
is? If it's too big, you don't see it all.
You have to expand the symbol because the
comments are sized
depending on the size of the diamond,
you know, and all that, that's just silly,
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
you know, like, so it's,
so you need all those independent.
Yeah.
So anyway, okay,
so what have I thought of? So I thought,
I know that I need quite a complex model
underneath,
it's like a configuration model for the
diagram, like what fonts,
how many fonts are there?
you know, what colour scheme, you know,
there needs to be configuration stuff and
Mhm.
also sizing stuff like, so I can say,
here's the basic size of the main symbol,
which is a task really,
I guess the main symbol.
And then the gateways need to be.
approximately 1/3 the height of the,
they need to be,
and I need to be able to vary that,
the size of a diamond compared to the
standard size of a rector,
so that I can make everything look
Yeah.
reasonable. In some implementations,
they are the same size and it...
Yeah, yeah, they like that in Lucidchart,
and it's annoying, yeah.
for instance, Savaglio is a bit like that.
Yeah, it's annoying.
They shouldn't be that size.
And they're the sort of things that I
think can make the diagram much more,
you know, understandable. Anyway,
so other than that,
there's probably that the whole idea of
Mm.
being able to drag and drop symbols is
probably what you want. You want to
want a palette. But, you know, okay,
so that's where we're heading.
Mhm.
What I was thinking was,
if we were just setting up,
if we just said,
let's set it up so we do this
unbelievably simple,
just has squares with text and connect
and arrows.
That's all it allows you to do, you know,
like something very simple.
Mhm.
Or even just boxes with text in them.
In other words,
just a very simple diagram type.
This will be a test diagram type will be
the first diagram type will do.
And get that all working end to end so
Mm.
Yeah.
that you can create them,
you can edit them and blah, blah, blah.
Mhm.
There's nothing that complicated in the
diagram.
We're not that worried about what it
looks like,
but it is a diagram that we're able to
reproduce, you know, like redisplay,
and then we can start fiddling with that,
add more, you know, like say, okay, well,
Yep.
now the next diagram type has actually
got more symbols. It has a, you know...
I can start mucking about with it.
So that's what I'm thinking. Anyway,
Yeah.
Okay.
that's it in a nutshell.
And so...
For the for that MVP diagram.
Um...
MVib, sorry.
Yeah,
so you'll be your very first of the MVP
being that very simple diagram, right?
The minimum viable product. So, yeah,
Oh, I see, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, okay,
yeah, yeah.
yeah, yeah, so.
Um...
So is the, so let's, you know,
let's talk about the MVP.
I want to be drawing that from scratch,
though.
So is the MVP for this,
for this product then user logs into the
service, they're able to,
they say create new diagram of type basic
or whatever this thing we call.
Yep, yep.
Then that that expand that that then
expands out the diagram. Now,
what's the experience for actually like?
Creating the the like,
are you is it are we having an agentic
experience where it's asking them
questions, hey,
upload your process or or what's the
first step in your process?
How are you kind of envisaging the thing
being created? Yeah.
Oh, okay. Okay, the whole interaction.
Okay. Well,
I was envisaging that it's an interactive
diagrammatic tool that you do yourself,
but I think that may be old thinking,
quite frankly. You know,
that at least the first draught of it
needs to be generated.
But unless I can manually create it...
But then you need to be able to
manipulate each piece after it,
Yeah.
after the initial generation.
Yeah, I think, though,
an agentic approach,
if you know how hard it is to get any
kind of diagram with current agentic
Mm.
approaches or whatever,
but if you could do that, by the way,
what's the word, not lucid, BP?
You know, the, you know,
years ago we had this,
we were going to be a partner with some
kind of BPMN diagramming tool. Yeah,
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I paid the money, I think. Prime.
I forget what Prime Prime, but yeah,
Prime, we pay,
I paid them some money, yeah.
you pay good money for this,
you know what I mean? Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
And used to, you know,
curse under your breath every time you
thought of it, but the, the, you know,
bloody dad and his bloody,
Yeah.
Yeah, bloody 2 charlatan friends that he.
bloody baby cost a *******,
got a cost a ******* thought. Anyway, so,
yeah, well, anyway,
one of the jobs I went for that I got an
Nash.
interview for, I forget who that was now,
but
They used Prime, did they?
They use Prime. You know, unfortunately,
the guy representing, you know, like me,
Yeah, yeah.
had told me, oh, bone up on Signavio,
they use Signavio.
So I get into the interview and say, oh,
I believe you use Signavio. Oh, no, no,
no, we don't. We use Prime.
And I'm thinking, Prime,
I've heard of that.
And if I'd been pre-warned,
Mm.
I could have looked up my stuff.
that we did with them. Yeah, but anyway,
that was a bit unfortunate. Okay, yeah,
Yeah, yeah.
No, it doesn't matter.
so Prime, what?
All right, okay, so that, okay,
so we have a bit of a project brief.
So the audience,
let's just quickly round out some project
Yeah.
brief stuff.
So the audience is obviously business
analysts.
These are people who are looking to
create their own processes.
We're creating a process tool,
a process mapping tool to help them do
that significantly better,
adhering to all of the standards.
You know,
based on your expertise in that thing, OK,
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
that's it in a nutshell, yeah.
alright.